---
title: Content addressing
description: A conceptual overview of content-based addressing for storing and locating files on a decentralized network with Web3.storage.
---

# Content addressing

_Content addressing_ is a technique for organizing and locating data in an information system in which the key used to locate content is derived from the content itself rather than a location.

## The basic problem

Consider what happens when you resolve a link like `docs.web3.storage/concepts/content-addressing`. First, your operating system will query a global shared key-value store, split into many domains: the Domain Name System (DNS). The DNS will return an IP address that your network card can use to send HTTP requests over the network, where this site's naming conventions turn the key `/concepts/content-addressing` into a response payload.

The problem is, components of an address like `docs.web3.storage/concepts/content-addressing` are _mutable_, meaning they can change over time. If we forget to pay our bills, the domain can expire and be bought by the highest bidder. Or, if we decide to play fast and loose with our site structure and forget to add redirects, the path `/concepts/content-addressing` might return a 404 error instead of this concept guide.

In the context of the web, where _everything_ is mutable and dynamic, this is just the way it's always been. The web has never promised any kind of permanence, either in content or in the "meta-structure" of links between content. As a result, [link rot](https://en.wikipedia-on-ipfs.org/wiki/Link_rot) is just something we've all learned to live with.

But for a digital artifact that's meant to actually be permanent, link rot is an existential concern.

## CIDs: Location-independent, globally unique keys

A content-addressed system such as Web3.storage works just like our key-value-based DNS system, with one significant difference: You no longer get to choose the keys. Instead, the keys are derived directly from the values that are stored using a deterministic function that will always generate the same key for the same content.

Instead of accepting a key and a value, [the `put` method](../how-tos/store.md) just takes a value and returns the key to the caller. In exchange for not being able to choose your own keys, you get some valuable properties.

First, we no longer need to coordinate among multiple writers to our store by splitting the key space into domains. There's now one universal domain — the domain of all possible values. If multiple people add the same value, there's no collision in the key space. They just each get the same key back from the `put` method. This gives our keys _location independence_.

This type of key is called a Content Identifier (CID), and it is generated by a hashing algorithm that looks at the unique contents of the file. This algorithm ensures that no two files could ever have the same CID, if there is even one byte of difference.

Once you have the CID for a file on the Web3.storage network, you have all you need for the network to locate and return the file back to you. Here is a JavaScript example of a complete storage and retrieval round-trip using Web3.storage:

```javascript
// get uploaded files from a form
const fileInput = document.querySelector('input[type="file"]')

// store files and obtain a CID
const rootCid = await client.put(fileInput.files)

// retrieve files using the CID
const res = await client.get(rootCid)
const files = await res.files()
for (const file of files) {
  console.log(`${file.cid} ${file.name} ${file.size}`)
}
```

## Under the hood

Content addressing is the basis of the InterPlanetary File System, or [IPFS](https://ipfs.io), and IPFS is the system used under the hood by Web3.storage to locate files. When your data is stored on IPFS, users can fetch it from any IPFS node that has a copy, which can make data transfers more efficient and reduce the load on any single server. As each user fetches a piece of data, they keep a local copy around to help other users who might request it later.

Web3.storage makes it easy to get your data onto IPFS, as well as providing long-term persistence backed by the decentralized [Filecoin](https://filecoin.io/) storage network, which incentivizes participants to provide storage space for files on the network. (For more details on that, see the [Decentralized Storage](decentralized-storage.md) topic. By combining these two technologies, Web3.storage makes it very simple to use a decentralized solution for storing, locating, and retrieving your files.

## Summary

Locating files using content addressing solves for the mutability of location-dependent storage systems by using a hashing algorithm to generate a unique Content Identifier (CID) for each file, and using that as the lookup key for a file rather than a URL. This ensures that users intending to retrieve a specific version of a file will be guaranteed to retrieve that version for as long as it exists anywhere on the network.

## More resources

For more information on content addressing, see [the ProtoSchool lesson on content addressing](https://proto.school/content-addressing/).
